# Brain flush

## Introduction
In these blogs I'm just writing questions arising. Try to answer them my self and elaborate a bit.
At this point feel free to comment with your thoughts. In the end I want to create an other state of the document, which is a full elaboration on the questions. 
It is  open to reply via pull request. Approach it as an open source research document.

So lets start! The question of today.

## Intrigue
**How does a company delivers software with only one state of code in a microservice landscape without breaking stuff?**

- Why micro-services?
- Why only one state of code?
  - What does it imply?
- What about database migrations for all forms of data (structured, semi-structured or non-structured)?
- What about data contracts between systems (internal and external)?
- Is it all possible without versioning?
- What about the development practices?
  - Commit times
  - Commit frequencies
  - Local development
  - Debugging
  - Tests (unit, integrated)
  - To scrum or not scrum
  - Development phases? 
- What about security? 

## Resolution
### Why micro-services?
What is a micro-services? Well, I'm going to skip the wikis and books about this topic.
What if we split up the words. 

<ins>Micro</ins>
  
According to the [Cambridge dictionary](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/micro) it is something very small.
Like a microorganism. 

<ins>Service</ins>

As a noun it is [an act of helpful activity](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/service).

So it is a very small organism that is providing an act of helpful activity. So in other words it is a system with a simple scope providing assistance in need of another system.
In my opinion and from experience it helps a lot to decrease the scope to reduce head-space for critical thinking on a specific finite task.
The hardest part is defining the scope en isolating processes. However, if done wel it will make life easier. 
But wait... all those loosely coupled systems is complex? How to coop with that is out of scope for this document. 
I'll try to come back on this topic in a separate document.
In context of this document. A smaller scope of work reduces complexity within a task. By defining its boundaries and 
hopefully makes it easier to release smaller chunks independently of each other. Improving the I in the team with respect to the team.

### Why only one state of code?
