---
title: ""
date: 2022-08-31T22:54:15+02:00
draft: false
---
Table of content
- [Intriguing Question](#intriguing-question)
- [Resolution](#resolution)
  - [Why micro-services?](#why-micro-services)
  - [Why only one state of code?](#why-only-one-state-of-code)
    - [What does it imply?](#what-does-it-imply)
  - [What about database migrations for all forms of data (structured, semi-structured or non-structured)?](#what-about-database-migrations-for-all-forms-of-data-structured-semi-structured-or-non-structured)
  - [What about data contracts between systems (internal and external)?](#what-about-data-contracts-between-systems-internal-and-external)
  - [Is it all possible without versioning?](#is-it-all-possible-without-versioning)
  - [What about the development practices?](#what-about-the-development-practices)
    - [Commit times](#commit-times)
    - [Commit frequencies](#commit-frequencies)
    - [Local development](#local-development)
    - [Debugging](#debugging)
    - [Tests (unit, integrated)](#tests-unit-integrated)
    - [To scrum or not scrum](#to-scrum-or-not-scrum)
    - [Development phases?](#development-phases)
  - [What about security?](#what-about-security)



# Intriguing Question
**How does a company delivers software with only one state of code in a microservice landscape without breaking stuff?**

- Why micro-services?
- Why only one state of code?
  - What does it imply?
- What about database migrations for all forms of data (structured, semi-structured or non-structured)?
- What about data contracts between systems (internal and external)?
- Is it all possible without versioning?
- What about the development practices?
  - Commit times
  - Commit frequencies
  - Local development
  - Debugging
  - Tests (unit, integrated)
  - To scrum or not scrum
  - Development phases? 
- What about security? 

# Resolution
## Why micro-services?
What is a micro-services? Well, I'm going to skip the wikis and books about this topic.
What if we split up the words. 

<ins>Micro</ins>
  
According to the [Cambridge dictionary](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/micro) it is something very small.
Like a microorganism. 

<ins>Service</ins>

As a noun it is [an act of helpful activity](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/service).

So it is a very small organism that is providing an act of helpful activity. 
In other words, it is a system with a simple scope providing assistance in need of another system.
In my opinion, and from experience, it helps a lot to keep the scope small. It reduces head-space, 
space needed for critical thinking for that specific finite task.
The hardest part is defining the scope en isolating processes. However, if done well, it will make life easier. 
But wait... all those loosely coupled systems? It is complex!
True, it can be. How to coop with that is out of scope for this document. 
I'll try to come back on this topic in a separate document.
So in context of this document.
```
By defining boundaries, it makes lives easier. Easier to release chunks independently of each other. 
Improving the I in the team with respect to the team.
```

## Why only one state of code?
Well do we all fully understand quantum physics? I think not. A few of us have the dedication and brains to understand the domain. 
It's complex. Then lets imagine living in a multiple state world. Awesome, but still complex. Reduce the degrees of freedom on state. Keep it simple. 
Keep in mind, the longer a branch lives in a separate state the harder it becomes to trace changes, harder to figure out the delta with the previous release.

### What does it imply?
Working on one branch. Commit and push changes often or on a regular base. Keep in sync with your peers. 
It also implies that their is only one state for development, accepting and production environment. Yes, all on one state. I would like to challenge you to rethink the business requirement of first testing new features within their existing release cycle. Within the next chapters I'm going to share some of my thoughts on how to.

## What about database migrations for all forms of data (structured, semi-structured or non-structured)?


## What about data contracts between systems (internal and external)?


## Is it all possible without versioning?
Imagine you walk into a bar. You order a beer. And in return you get that beer regardless of bartender, owner, makeover, backend process, everything that hasn't to do with you. Wouldn't it be nice when API's work the same way?
Sure. But.. wait.. What if they wan't to remove beer from their menu. Thats a breaking change!.. Yeah.. though luck.
Probably, when it happens at the bar the bartender will politely refer us to another bar to have more success. Why not try to build a same cooping mechanism between systems? For example, host an older state (so the state before the breaking change) for another period of time without any state changes on that instance from that point on. 


## What about the development practices?

  ### Commit times

  ### Commit frequencies

  ### Local development

  ### Debugging

  ### Tests (unit, integrated)

  ### To scrum or not scrum

  ### Development phases? 
  Use environment configurations to hide features for external exposure when they are still in construction. Isolate modules, components. Redesign.  

## What about security? 